Okay,
you're live. Hi folks,
little bit of a slow start today.
Spent most of my morning um going
through various messages and things. I
want to be doing more dev hours,
frankly.
Few weeks, a lot of meeting hours.
Speaking of which, I'm going to be
I might be able to stream in the
afternoon tomorrow, but most of the rest
of the week I'm going to be up in SF on
business stuff.
Anyways though,
let's uh get a little bit of Devon when
we can. Right.
I got a little bit over I think like an
hour and a halfish
and um we have a lot of stuff to do in
that time.
Let's do
I have the end here.
Go
and uh puffer.
Yeah, this looks
welcome.
Work on some drone stuff today.
Why is my reream bot doing that?
That's weird. We'll see if it keeps
doing that. That's obnoxious. All right.
So, this is the hover task. And see it's
pretty good, Okay.
I'd be confused if it can't do the flag
task, but it can do the cover task,
right?
Morning, chicken. Uh, yeah, Reream did
some jank stuff. Hang on.
Why? Why did you
you open to working on
what what is BCI
computer.
if it makes any sense, right?
Why wouldn't I be
Morning,
Nick.
Is there a thing where like people don't
want to work on brain computer in like
is there a thing where people think it's
bad that that like like obviously a good
thing for that to exist, right?
Where can I send the details? Uh, if you
want a private like a private channel,
jswispuffer.ai.
Just got introduced to reinforcement
learning. What can I do to be able to
research? You can read my articles and
follow them to the tea.
I will show you.
I got that question so many times that I
put together like a uh an exact guide
with all of my best advice.
It's like the most common question I
get.
Hey, Anick.
All right. So, if you just go here on X,
my articles tab here,
ultra opinionated guide to reinforcement
learning. If you're newer, my advice for
programming in ML, you should probably
read this even if you're like not that
new. I as well. These two together have
all my best advice.
And it's like a step by-step. Do this,
do this, do this, do this. Now you know
how to research. Good.
Pretty short thing, too. Like,
if you have AI fundamentals and
programming fundamentals, you can do
this stuff in like a couple of weeks,
and you'll actually contribute useful
things along the way before you get into
like the hard research stuff.
Okay. How's this work?
This is a bad score, I'm pretty sure.
This a bad score?
Yeah, this is a bad score. Okay.
Huh?
I noticed entropy is almost all of your
Wait, I noticed entropy.
You mean you notice entropy? Like the
fact that there is an entropy term? You
can quantify that for not PO. Um, we
don't actually use PO. Our algorithm is
based on PO, but it's meaningfully more
advanced, like a generational
improvement. And entropy really is not a
big part of the algorithm. Like, it
matters a lot in some environments, but
I wouldn't even put it in like the top
five most important things about PO
or about our algorithm, at least about
our algorithm. Maybe in the top five
about PO, but not about our algorithm.
All of our new algorithm research and
stuff is public as well. Like not only
is the code public, but I have writeups
on everything if you want to learn about
our algorithms.
Oh,
hang on. Did I do this wrong?
See if that makes a difference.
I would like to figure out how to
disable.
How do I disable that? Like respot
broadcasting everything like that.
That's super annoying.
Oh, wait. Here. I found it. Hang on. Let
me fix that, guys.
All
right, that does it. Hard to read them
recently. I'll use puff lip for my
thesis and awesome.
Okay, this is totally different. So I
think what happened this is very silly
is I just I literally just had run the
wrong command before. Uh I think this is
not perfect still.
I'll have to let this finish and we'll
copy this policy and we'll see if it
makes the flag or not.
I have a whole bunch of cool projects
lined up uh to do on stream
the next like several weeks.
We'll see how long it takes me to get to
everything because like I have a whole
bunch of meetings in SF this week. Then
I got to get ready for RLC, the RLC
conference.
Got to present Puffer Lib. Got to make
the poster and stuff for that as well.
And then um
we'll see if there's any like business
side stuff off of that.
And then once I'm back, I'll be able to
probably start cranking on some things.
Oh yeah, this PF looks way better.
That's probably doing the flag, right?
We'll always like visualize to be sure,
but I think the process here is going to
be like make sure that the tasks work,
make sure the tasks work randomized,
then try to do them jointly.
Why does it auto complete that? That's
so weird.
Oh.
But this is
all right. Let's see what this does.
American
flag.
Yep. American flag.
Solid, right?
American flag in drones.
And that is satisfying.
Not fully perfect. I can fix that up
though over time. I can always fine-tune
task works.
All right, next thing.
So, we know that the tasks work on their
own.
So, we know that these work on their
own, not randomized.
Can the drones stably hover?
with randomization.
The idea here is this is a very easy
task if your dynamics are good.
So if our uh if this doesn't work, it
basically means the dynamics are wrong
and there's like literally no way to
learn. I have to just fix the physics.
I guess technically it could be our
learning, but our learning is usually
very very good.
Got a
that try this.
The goal with all of this, right, is
we're going to get this to the point
that we basically have a tiny model that
can just do whatever with drones.
It's not like one model that has to be
trained for each task or what now. It's
just going to do everything.
It'll be super robust. It'll go on real
hardware.
Be the goal.
I will talk a little bit about one of
the uh the next projects that I want to
do.
Obviously, we're going to do stuff with
the drones. These aren't done, right?
It's just that it becomes like type of
thing where we start looking for
companies before we take it farther. Um,
but the next thing I kind of want to
work on is a sixth degree of freedom
robot arm.
These things, they're like industrial
arms.
I think a lot of the Sims at the moment
are really over complicated and really
slow.
I think we could make our own version
that's like very very simple, very
nicely domain randomized and just runs
on real hardware.
What is a feature that you wish were
implemented?
Purely engineering or research side,
right?
Budget size that would imply that I can
get research done, right?
I think that the main question in my
head, well, not really even the main
question, but the main thing that's hard
that like only I can really work on at
the moment. We don't have people that
have, well, that's not true. We have a
couple people, but not too many people
that have the experience to work on it.
Uh, is on the research side.
There are a few different competing
theories on how we scale RL to work on
more compute. at the moment and I would
really like to have somebody to help
investigate these fully. There's off
policy RL which a couple people started
sort of taking a look at not like just
vanilla DQN obviously right it's going
to be like minimum rainbow successors to
rainbow stuff like meme stuff like Mr. Q
like all the newer stuff as well. The
thing is it's like I think that space is
horribly over complicated and a lot of
the quality of the science being done is
very low.
You really really have to be careful
about uh how rigorously you test this
stuff, what variables you control for.
Do it on a ton of environments like see
if there's some stuff we can get from
that to put into puffer lib. My goal
essentially, okay, if I were to give you
like the mechanistic the result of the
uh of what I want is I basically I want
a knob that I can turn use more compute
and fewer samples or I can use more
samples and less compute. Right? We have
right now we can use a ton of data, ton
of samples and not a lot of compute. We
can't really go the other way yet. So
the stuff I was just describing is on
that line, right? Do we do off policy?
Do we do search? Do we scale like model
size with some sort of self-supervised
thing, right? Like some sort of either
world model thing or like uh Kevin Wong
has been in the chat a bunch. He has
like this thing for contrastive.
I think that's the main thing in my
mind. That's like the unsolved research
bit, right?
Yeah, that's the main thing in my mind.
I think obviously there's still
advancements we can make on like don't
use any more compute and just make it
better, fewer samples, better learning
regardless. But I think in like the
terms of just like capabilities we don't
really have, it's the ability to scale
one way or the other like that.
All right, this actually looks like it
worked potentially.
the response in the stream. Got it.
Good.
This should be drones of different sizes
and form factors and such hovering.
No problems.
We'll see if that's what we get.
Sam and I had a chat with a guy from
drone racing team in Poland. Awesome.
I'm almost I'm almost done with your
sim. Um
it's taken longer than I wanted to. I
hit a few bugs,
but I almost have like the all-in-one
sim that does everything
using Puffer. Awesome.
I'd be more than happy to chat with them
and also with you guys. How's the uh the
physical hardware going?
Cuz that's the main question I get. I've
chatted with a couple different drone
companies at this point as well. And
they kind of just like, yeah, the RL is
cool and stuff. They don't really
understand a lot of the RL oftentimes.
Uh the thing that would be most
convincing is like seeing it do anything
like something anything on real
hardware. Even if we don't do any
perception and we just have them fly
around and like you can see on the
computer that it thinks it's flying
through loops and then on the real world
it's like doing cool aerials. That would
al already be awesome.
I think that will be enough to get us
like some cool partnerships with
companies. Okay, so this is randomized
drones hovering. You can see their
different sizes and form factors and
such. And with a few small exceptions,
they're all hovering correctly.
I think that this is like a reasonable
randomization band we've gotten out of
this. At least it's a good enough
starting point.
This is the easiest task, though. So,
let's see if I can get them to do the
flag.
Getting there. Let me know if there's
anything I can do to help you guys.
Uh we're going to start doing a little
bit more hardware with Puffer. I really
don't want to do high fidelity control
stuff with Puffer. So like the max thing
I would look at is uh maybe like a six
degree of freedom arm, but I want to
actually start doing at least some
hardware component with our stuff.
Mind you, I don't think that it's the
only thing we should do. Like there's
really valuable RL stuff that doesn't
involve hardware at all.
It's a massive blind spot for us to not
at least have some of it.
Well, we'll see. Oh, actually, this is a
great question for you. Hey Finn, you
know the way that you did like the
single file all the physics from scratch
drone implementation?
I've been thinking about trying to do
that for a six degree of freedom arm.
How hard do you think that would be?
tried game playing agents. Yeah. So, I
saw that. I love Carmarmac and every
like all of his stuff, but from the RL
side, like that's the exact opposite
direction of what we want to go.
Like very low sample regime um from the
start at least. That's the last thing I
want to do.
I think it's backwards. you solve high
sample regime first, which is what we're
doing. And then the thing that I was
mentioning earlier of like having the
knob you can turn to crank down, like
it's very important to do high sample
regime first.
Not sure. God knows.
I think it cut your message off.
Happy to give it a go. Well, I want you
guys to do the drone stuff first.
I definitely want you guys to do the
drone stuff first.
I also want to maybe look at a little
bit of the math myself because like come
on, I my math can only be so bad, right?
Like I've actually got to learn a little
bit of this stuff at some point. Like
it's one differential equation.
Shouldn't be that bad, right?
Like I did this stuff in undergrad. I
haven't used it in years, but it wasn't
hard back then. It shouldn't be hard
now.
I actually I was going to throw this
book away and then I thought, "Oh, I
might need that. Hang on.
Look at this. I happen to have in I just
happen to have in this office my uh
college OD textbook.
It's not even a PTE. It's just a single
OD, right?
We're pretty close to having it run IRL.
That's going to be awesome.
Yeah, that's going to be awesome.
Okay.
nine.
Let's see if this does flag for us.
This one's hard. I don't think we've
gotten this to work before. I'll be
happy if this works.
Randomized
Of
course, we're not going to know the sim
to real gap right the get-go.
My idea basically for these things
though is
I think we're going to want we're
essentially going to want the LSTM
memory to do implicit online system ID
if that makes sense. trained on all
these different randomized things and uh
it has to be able to basically do online
by flying around a little bit. It's
supposed to figure out how its controls
work.
Can send commands working on some lowle
stuff to replace the controller with a
policy.
Okay, cool.
You have like the C policy from before.
We can get like new policies into C for
you as well. I don't think structurally
it's gotten any more complicated since
then. Just the sim that's gotten
complicated, which doesn't matter for
this, right?
Okay.
Ah, yeah. So, this is what I remember,
right? Like it can't
it just can't quite do it, right?
What's our collision detection logic
look like?
This shouldn't matter because like it's
not based on the size of the drone,
right?
Nearest drone.
Yeah, it's a fixed 1.0.
That kind of weird.
Why can they hover but they can't make
the flag?
At least like they can kind of make the
flag, right?
Without the randomizations works
perfectly.
Hovering works. It's like it's kind of a
flag, but what are you what are you
doing over here? Right? Like what's this
guy doing?
It's possible some of the controls
really janky.
Rain longer or something.
You know what we're going to do?
I had an idea.
I wonder if the policy is any good.
What if I have the trained randomized
policy?
Trained randomized eval fixed
trained with all sorts of crazy drones.
Does that training data mess up the
policy or does it actually make the
policy robust?
[Music]
Okay, it messes up the policy, right?
Cuz these drones here, we actually know
that we can learn this problem, right?
Like this, but training on the other
drones has messed it up.
You just need to train it for longer.
Let's set that up while I uh
up.
Would have to be like a control problem.
No.
Why Puffer Lib can't be installed on
Windows?
Uh, basically I haven't bothered making
it work on Windows because like can just
use WSL and have something way closer to
a native Linux environment and like not
have to have me spend a whole bunch of
times for an OS that really you should
not be using for dev.
You really should not be on Windows,
especially for like scientific computing
dev.
You're just going to have a bad time.
You can use WSL. It's literally already
built in.
I'd have to fix annoying stuff like how
our multipprocessing works for instance
because like multiprocessing is
literally different on Windows
and it's different in a way that messes
us up.
This will eventually go away, but then
there's no guarantee that like other
packages all work on Windows because
like mostly people don't care about
Windows support.
Is it
got a 3M meeting?
How hard is it to ship it from Linux to
depends what you mean by ship. If you
just want a policy, not hard because
like all of our demos for instance just
are C, pure C.
And like even I guess you just have to
have PyTorch version of Windows. It
would be very easy. The thing that's
annoying is like stuff with our
simulators, right? And the way that we
run simulators in parallel gets annoying
with Windows and I just don't want to
fix it.
Just like not a good use of time.
Can you can absolutely deploy policies
on window that's not a problem.
just shouldn't be doing like research
and training and stuff on
actually know Kevin Wong from college
found you through him. Welcome.
Kevin has some cool research. Some
things would need to be slightly
reformulated, but if you can do it
correctly, it could be a very very big
advancement for Puffer.
You know how the custom physics
simulation rate compares to other
physics and RL environments. And so for
our drone stuff, it's going to be
ludicrously faster. Um, we don't have
highfidelity physics sims of our own,
right? Like most of our MS are games and
logistics and low fidelity physics. Uh,
I'm actually considering doing like a
six degree of freedom arm soon, or at
least trying to. I think we can do that
without even any engine, and I think we
can do it faster than most of the stuff
out there. Uh, we like we don't have any
plans to make a custom physics engine
though, unless like
basically for that to happen, a company
would have to really really like what
we're doing and really really want us to
build one.
What are you researching? Huffers. is a
general purpose reinforcement learning.
But at the moment, we're trying to
figure out how to train uh drones and
drone swarms. Drones for racing, drones
for swarming tasks, following tasks, all
things.
I'm currently trying to figure out how
we can add randomization into the sim
that's going to make it robust when we
go to deploy it in the real world.
And uh I'm currently fighting that
Yeah, sure thing, Jonathan.
I will say though, um, from my what I've
seen in a lot of robotics work, it's
very bloated. Like all these frameworks
are super super deep. Basically, what
everybody does, right, is you have like
these compiled Python wrappers into
low-level libraries, but then
researchers don't want to actually write
anything that's not Python. So it's like
janky domain specific tensor programming
language.
Not not where you want to be.
Get a scholarship to do okay. People
don't pay to do PhDs. That's not how it
works. At least not in the US fields. Um
you get paid get paid a pittance but you
do get paid do your PhD. You do not pay
tuition.
you do pay for masters, but in the US
you don't do a mast's before a PhD for
the most part. You go straight from
undergrad to PhD.
>> You're working on the reward function or
something different. I'm new to RL. Uh I
mean we do everything, right? We have
the simulator, we do domain
randomization, we have the entire stack,
our own training, our own policies, our
own hyperparameter tuning, everything.
Any plans for LM research with
verifiable rewards?
We kind of want to do everything except
LLMs, at least for the time being. And
the problem is just everything gets slow
and expensive with LLMs, right? Like
with what we're doing now, we can make
very fast research project rest with a
fairly small budget and like with mostly
grassroots open source stuff,
everything's just heavy in LLMs. It's
not like the problems are fundamentally
more complicated, just that everything
is slow. So that for that reason we
really don't want to bother with it.
there like so many other cool things
outside of LLMs that RL is going to be I
think even more meaningful for
I mean look if a company really wanted
to do like if they a company really
liked what we wanted like what we had
and wanted us to help adapt it for that
maybe I'm not going to say it's
impossible
but like we'd basically for all of these
things we'd pretty much have to have a
client that want like really really
wanted a thing everyone's doing LLM
exactly ly, which is why I want to do
something else. Right.
Any world in which you would support
fullbodied robots.
Um
maybe maybe quadripeds.
Maybe quadripeds, not humanoids.
I'd have to see how hard it would be for
the physics. Now, look, if you just want
to use an existing physics engine,
right, and you want to use our trainer
and our tools, you can do that. It's
very easy. Heck, I have a beta
integration with mannis scale and like
you can run it. It works. But like the
thing is um our algos are not tuned for
simulations that run that slow, right?
Like our training code by default it's
tuned for fast environments. You have to
retune very very aggressively for slow
environments to get comparable results.
So, I can do that. And I sort of started
playing with it, but I think that
initially I'd like to just kind of build
some of our own sims out and uh start
with like lower fidelity control first.
We're doing drones, which is rigid body,
four motors, all that. We'll probably do
six degree of freedom arms, and we'll
basically see how much people like using
that stuff, right? A lot of it depends
on users and contracts.
So, how many open source people are
generally using our stuff and enjoying
it? And then our companies interested in
having us build custom things for them.
That's mostly how it goes.
Okay. So, this actually did worse at a
billion. Interesting.
Very weird.
Just learning rate or something.
want. It shouldn't take a billion steps
to
Is it really that much of a difference?
It's weird to me that these guys can't
quite do the flag task even though they
can pretty perfectly do the hover task
and even with the non-randomized one.
Like if I train without randomization,
it'll do this perfectly.
But it's just off right with this
What do we try to fix this?
It's annoying because I'm not confident.
Not just like, yeah, you need to train
in for longer withizations, right? Fix
your learning rates.
If this gets to 0.9, I'll try to just
drop learning rate. I really don't like
doing that
dev cycle longer.
Reduce the randomization.
Already pretty slim though,
like a factor of four.
And it's crucial that this works. The
idea behind this, right, is that like
the drone should be able to do online
system ID
explicitly.
Okay. There is a huge difference there
between
Yeah, there's a quite a big difference.
fact that this gets to n like low 90s.
What is working suddenly?
That's not fully working, but it's
better.
I think this is within the realm of like
just figure out stable hypers to train a
little longer.
That's a little better. That's just from
a different speed.
I think it's literally just
I mean I should know better than to
manually tune hypers, but I'm going to
do it anyways.
Going to just cut the learning rate by a
factor of two.
We're going to do a billion steps. Let's
see if it somehow gets better than 94.
Need a GPU to do RL? Yes,
you need a consumer grade GPU. You don't
need an H00.
So, any decent desktop will do. Heck,
honestly, even without a GPU, it's not
great, but it is still going to be at
least 100x faster than without puffer
lip.
You can train like a few hundred,000
steps per second on a decent CPU.
We have users that are doing that.
Typically though, we run on high-end
desktops like one GPU desktops for most
of our experiments. So, I have a box
locally and then on the left here, this
term is my local box. This term on the
right is sshed into like a high-end
gaming PC with a 5090.
Okay. So, I mean, this looks better than
before. cuz it got stuck at mid80s
before.
So,
we'll see. We'll see how it plateaus, I
guess.
Let's just change in the meantime.
Get rid of this idea.
I got to fix hyperparameter sweeps on
continuous ends.
like they work, but they're kind of
crashy.
I don't have fault tolerance because
like the idea is you're just not
supposed to have crashes.
I got to either fix the root cause or
add fault tolerance.
The former would be way better long
term.
in 93. It's about the Perf that it was
before, halfway through. If it continues
to improve,
for a comparison,
this is the model that we trained
before.
Um, this is a hard problem, mind you,
because basically
all these drones are different. You see,
some of them are big, some of them are
small.
They all have different masses,
different inertas, and you don't know
what drone you're getting when you just
like when you start flying it. So
basically, it's like within a second or
two of playing with the drone, they have
to figure out, oh, this is how it
controls and then be stable from there.
So this is like a superhuman problem. I
don't think any human can do this well.
So it's not trivial despite the way it
looks here. I will have to like get some
better quadcopter models loaded in and
stuff like that. But this is a very hard
problem. I still kind of expect Puffer
to just have solved it though.
You know, we are actually getting better
here. We are getting better.
Charles's search technique, right?
Not really.
You really can't just you can't really
replace this with pure search.
Like how do you run search over this
space, right?
Like the actions are just motor torques.
There's no way to run search over that.
And like even in cases where you
technically can do search, the action
space is usually just massive.
There a road map for Puffer Lib. Oh,
wait. I've got two simultaneous ones.
Would you recommend a reinforcement
learning
or neurographics
rendering?
Take what you're interested in and take
whichever professor give like whatever
course has a professor that gives better
lecture.
I've never found a course where the
professor gives bad lectures to be
useful.
Their road map for puffer lib kind of uh
at the moment we're mostly working on
just building out tons of applications
in various areas since we've made a
bunch of breakthroughs and we want to
see what problems we can solve with them
and some working on drones. We have some
stuff with logistics. We've got a few
other projects we're working on the most
as well.
There is planned uh there is uh a plan
for more research
sample efficiencies on the map. Uh
performance improvements for like how do
we get these tiny neural nets to run
ridiculously fast and like way faster
than we have them now that's on the map.
There are a lot of things I want to do.
We're giving each drone its weights
sizes and input. No, we are not. And it
is important that we are not. Um at
least we should not be. I can double
check that.
It's important that we don't do that
though because like
it needs to be robust to a new drone,
right? Like you're going to give it a
new drone like real hardware to fly.
Like I guess technically you can weigh
it, but it's going to be somewhat
imprecise
because the environment is dynamic or
because it's
kind of both. Search in general is just
a much less flexible technique. Uh,
search combined with reinforcement
learning can work. That's like the whole
alpha zero mu0 line. Something we've
wanted to look into a little bit, but
like search out of the box ain't it.
What happened here? It like got worse or
something, didn't it?
Oh, you know what? That is actually
better.
That's like almost it, right?
I'm actually not displeased with this.
Hang on, let me try something real
quick.
I think that we can just solve this with
a little bit of scale. I think it's just
a harder learning problem and it needs
more data.
I want to see if it's robust if you give
it like known good drone parameters.
Go fiddle.
Train with domain randomization. deploy
without
or test without. You can test with lots
of different things do.
This is one drone model.
Okay, so this is like almost the level
of result that we got with no domain
randomization.
They mess up a little bit and recover
looks like, but this is actually pretty
good I would say.
Keep in mind like I don't even know how
many of these randomizations make full
sense, but this seems good to me.
Now, I'm sure then it's going to be
harder again.
It's going to be harder again once we
change this uh the tasks, right?
How good of a policy can we get if we do
do all non-ra tasks?
Welcome to all the YouTube folks. Oh
wow, 15 on YouTube today. Hey everyone,
if you're new around here, this is live
reinforcement learning research. I build
puffer liib is ultra high performance
simulation. Ultra high performance
training of small neural networks that
learn to interact with said simulations.
At the moment, I'm working on drones.
This is all free and open source work.
Let me fix that.
That get messed up. That's just my
editor being weird. Uh yeah, this is all
free and uh open source work though. And
if you are interested in
learning more or getting involved with
the research,
my Chrome gone.
Everything is at upper.ai.
If you want to help me out for free, you
start the repo. Also, where you check
out the source. If you want to join our
research community, we have the Discord.
You can also follow me on X where those
will agree to not be obnoxious. Nope.
Those on me.
I have a bunch of articles for newcomers
here. This includes our own core
research, but it also includes uh guides
for newcomers that I've spent quite a
bit of time on making quite accessible.
So, not primarily an education stream,
but we do have some good material there.
We've helped many people get into uh
reinforcement learn who now contribute
to our open source research.
It's almost at 3k stars. That's awesome.
Growth on this is great in just the last
couple weeks.
I have to train this model.
I don't know if this is going to work. I
think that the bar that I have to apply
to this has got to be pretty low. I
think if I get something that vaguely
looks like it's doing the correct
formations, I'll be happy
cuz we're probably just going to have to
train this for way longer, right? Like
it's
it has to learn system ID implicitly.
It's like this. It's like if I give you
a new drone that you've never touched
before, you have to learn to fly it
within a few seconds.
That's hard.
It's kind of crazy that this works at
all.
The thing is that it's kind of flown
every possible drone, but still like it
doesn't know what drone it's dealing
with till it actually flies it, right?
like 95 is usually good for uh these
types of tasks.
5%.
We'll be looking for that. I think the
flag task is harder any of the other
tasks. Hover is easy. Idles eh
orbit follow
It's like a middle difficulty task.
I hope it does at least 0.9
is like admittedly not great.
We just have to like subject this thing
to hyperparameter sweeps.
Why do you need an LSTM? Yes.
It wouldn't be possible without it,
right? because like architecturally the
only way that it can learn from step to
step in context is with the LSTM state.
Keep in mind we don't have an algorithm
that's intended to do this. It kind of
has to happen implicitly. Like the only
way that this is even remotely possible
is one, our reinforcement learning is
ridiculously good. Uh and two, we have a
ridiculous quantity of data.
Otherwise, this would be completely
impossible.
It is getting 0.9
is not great. It's kind of like I think
for most of the tasks 0.9 looks like
vaguely floating around in generally the
right area for most of the drones and
0.95 is like oh yeah I see the formation
that trying to make and then above that
it looks very clean.
It's a tough problem.
But this is trying to train all of them
at the same time.
The good news is that this thing is like
this thing is so fast.
This is going to be 6 minutes for a
billion. We can literally run 10 billion
in an hour.
So if I have to train this thing for a
100red billion steps to get you a good
policy, we kind of don't care. We have
unlimited data.
We do kind of care for like the
experiment turnaround time I guess,
right? But like if this is the type of
thing where just for development I have
to train on a single task and then we
just scale it up works for your uh works
more generally. That's kind of fine.
The good thing about this is I'm getting
a feel for the problem dynamic now,
right? Like I kind of hate having to sit
here and just tinker with stuff like
this, but you kind of can't get away
from it when you're trying to get a feel
for uh the dynamics of a new problem. At
least if you have something where it's
hard enough, you can't just solve it out
of the box. We do occasionally just
solve stuff out of the box. This is a
this is a pretty hard problem. I
It is actually important for us to know
how hard the system ID is. I imagine
it's going to be harder for a six degree
of freedom arm, right?
Yeah, that's definitely going to be
harder.
We're still not like training for
minutes, though.
How much time would I need to reach your
level?
I'm a beginner in ML. Well, I've been
doing this since I'm 16 and I'm quite
proud of uh skills that I've acquired
since then. So, if you are smarter than
me, you can do it in fewer than that
number of years, right? But that takes
quite a while regardless.
Um,
in order to be able to contribute
productively to research though, that
depends on stuff like your basic
programming background and your math and
all of that.
I have guides on my uh X page,
right?
So, if you take a look at these
articles, right? If you read this one
and nothing in here comes as a massive
surprise and you have the background at
a level of what's presented in this
article, then you can actually do this
within a couple of weeks to a couple of
months and then you're like at that
point you will be a productive
contributor and you'll be able to fill
in the gaps from there.
Who are you? I'm Joseph. How's it going?
for new environments. Are you looking
for things that challenge the protein
algorith
of different environments or they just
prove? Um, it's a bunch of things. So
proteins just are hyperparameter tuning,
right? That's the thing that does that
launches a bunch of experiments to set
like the parameters that control the
parameters, right? There's the learning
algorithm which is just I don't know the
puffer trainer, we haven't named it,
which is an advanced version of PO,
really a substantially advanced version
of PO. So it's no longer anything like
the original algorithm in terms of
performance.
Uh things that we want right we want
things that are interesting algorithmic
challenges that let us advance our core
algorithm. Yes you're correct on that.
We want new applications in different
areas. So if you have expertise in a
like any area of science or engineering
or industry right and you say ah this is
a problem that we could simulate very
interested in that. In fact, if there's
something valuable there, right, um, we
have a number of ways you can work with
us on the business side. Like
essentially, we can both make money in
the process and advance science
publicly.
We have like a pretty good model for
doing that.
I think those are sort of the main
things on new environments. Uh, we also
we don't mind games, right? Newcomers
who have less experience will often just
implement arcade games. And the thing
about those is like kind of hard to know
what environments are going to be useful
for research until you've built them.
Like 2048, for instance, ended up being
really useful. Um, and then there's
stuff like Tetris, which just ended up
looking ridiculously cool. Like I didn't
expect Tetris to look this cool
here.
Yeah, look at this. Look how freaking
cool this looks.
It's just mesmerizing, right?
I mean, there are lots of different ways
that you can get involved and contribute
productively.
I suppose that the question was about my
background.
Um, I finished my PhD up at MIT a little
over a year ago. Been working in AI for
over a decade, almost a decade in
reinforcement learning. I am doing
research in public trying to make this
entire field fast and sane and make it
work on a ton of different types of
problems quickly as well as to make it
easier for newcomers to apply this to
new problems. Generally, the scope of my
Okay, we got 91%. So, we lost a few%
compared to the single task, but I don't
think the I don't think it's apples to
apples.
Let's move this onto our local and see
if this
Okay, this task
do whatever kind of fine, right?
Play around.
They roughly form a sphere.
Not bad.
They follow
kind of. Yeah, they sort of follow. It's
not amazing.
Do the cube.
Pretty close.
Hopefully, these tasks need to be
reformulated a little bit.
Where's the flag?
When I press space, it changes their
task.
Love to learn with you. Just join the
Discord. There's literally no barrier to
like there's no barrier to getting
involved. The way it works is just that
people who stick around and actually put
the effort in to learn things end up
like getting involved with all the other
things we do.
That's actually a pretty solid flag.
There's one drone that's off for some
reason. Okay, I'm actually very happy
with these results.
Okay.
I mean, the only other thing that we
have to do is this plus the racing
model, right?
I'm going to do two small things.
Do
This is probably a slow one, but I'll
just kind of ignore that.
The one other thing that I want to do
with this is racing.
What time is it? I have a 3 p.m. that I
have to get to and I have to actually
travel.
I got like half an hour probably.
And I want longer dev hours, but
there are a lot of meetings I have
lately.
Kind of just like meeting people in
different spaces trying to figure out
what problems we can apply this to.
Talking to a material science guy today.
And uh
I think low-level material sim is pretty
dang close to the top of my
kind of like a pipe dream application in
the sense that I don't have any idea if
it makes physical sense yet. But if we
can like do RL for advancing materials
that would be
that would be some sci-fi tech that and
biology like atoms are atoms
guess full cell simulations potentially
harder than like serial sims
I don't know anybody in this space we do
sometimes get uh viewers who have
experience in different areas
potential for collabs.
Make the modification
I think that this should work at least
decor
splitting the way I have sampling done.
You might need to train this for two
billion steps.
You'll see.
I think that this is like reasonable
enough.
Could at least get something good out of
this.
I only use eight. All right.
So once this project is a little more
mature,
probably like paralyze four experiments
at a time,
take
15 to 20 minutes per experiment.
Probably that's like if I'm doing four
at a time, that's probably enough that
by the time I have one experiment
finished, the next one already. I
already have the hardware free back up.
Be good.
would like to get it to be a little
faster though. 15 minutes is not optimal
for experiment cycles. Really ideally
want it to be like seconds to minutes.
Uh is this I guess the metric's not
going to be comparable anymore because
the uh the racing task is going to
totally change it.
So when you have um
the metrics are comparable to run from
run to run with the same task. But when
change the tasks
3 million SPS for this very nice
overhead
14% copy overhead is kind of nuts.
The observations are very small.
Probably have to optimize that at some
point. But maybe have to wait until I do
the next like pass on our
infrastructure.
I've kind of been punting because like
the thing that I have to do to fix that
is going to be a lot easier if I just
wait until Python has wring that works.
uh which apparently is in three I
believe 314 has it. If I just wait a
little bit, it'll the problem will kind
of be solved for me.
We'll be interested to see when I try
the uh the six degree of freedom arm how
fast I can get that to run.
Think it'll be that slow.
I think it'll be pretty fast.
Checklist until 231N.
Wow. It's you.
What do you mean? Wow. It's you.
I I did not make that course. That's
Justin. Justin and Andred
recommendation. Yeah.
231N is Actually,
it got kind of a bad rep for a little a
bad rap for a little bit at Stanford uh
for a very stupid reason, which is like
students are kind of accustomed to like
hardc course good, right? Like the
harder a course is, the more you learn.
And that's just simply not true, right?
Some things are just hard to learn and
the courses has to be hard for you to
learn it. But other things can just be
taught in a way that like you have to
put in the work, but it's not like
ridiculously difficult. And 231N is one
of those where it's not a ridiculously
difficult course, but it teaches you a
lot.
was actually one of my main gripes with
um
with university was that like I felt
like a lot of the courses were kind of
just designed to screw with you and be
really difficult and not really like
learning stuff was secondary. It was
like mostly just designed to challenge
you.
There are a million ways to challenge
somebody uh without actually doing
anything useful.
There were a few good.
All right. Does this do anything?
Okay. Here's the racing sim.
Racing looks good, right? Holy, look at
this. Racing looks great.
That's super zippy.
That's a nice robust policy.
Jeez,
I'm happy with this.
Then non-racing. They like go follow
some targets.
This ear formation thing, not great.
Follow target actually works a little
better than before.
Little better.
Wow, that's cool. Yeah, right.
It's pretty cool.
These guys get themselves into a cube
anymore, though.
I think they're just going to need more
training data
because like if you think about it, I
had a billion steps of training but half
of it was racing data. So like
realistically it's like they only saw
500 million steps of data for this tasks
these tasks and like it split across a
bunch of different ones. So it maybe
only got like 80 million steps of this.
This is not great.
How's hover?
Hover's like kind of okay.
I did fix this so that the drones aren't
right on top of each at least.
Was a flag task.
see if they can make the flag kind of.
At least we know it's not anything like
super fundamental, right? This is just
straight up scale. Like it's kind of the
flag. Not really.
But we know that like these drones can
learn this task when it's individually
like when you give it individually for 1
billion.
And like we know that they have this
super zippy racing policy.
Honestly, the racing policy looks better
than before. I think that like the other
data actually helped this one.
Maybe the formation tasks are just
harder somehow. I don't know.
Okay,
this is decent enough.
Next things on this project.
I mean, this is at least good enough
that you can try these policies out, I
think, already. Finn,
I'll ship you in. I'll ship you better
and better policies
as you get like more stuff on the drone.
There definitely some things that need
to be messed with here.
Let's get this version of the code
locked up. This actually We got
something that actually works.
What are training drones?
Domain randomized drones. So, actually,
it's like tons of different types of
drones in the same run.
Okay. So, this is pushed.
Uh, I'm going to do a few things.
First is going to be
and belly.
How do you know if training is
successful?
Well, we have metrics and then we can
like we can do this and watch them,
right?
I got to get us a quadcopter model so
we're not just drawing like ball and
sticks.
This will go run itself for minutes.
Leave that be.
We tried anything relating to trading.
We do have one active thing in finance.
Um
I have actually a couple other like
worries in that space.
You don't you definitely just don't want
to do this on the general stock market
and think it's going to do anything
though. That's like that's not an
algorithm game. That's an information
asymmetry problem.
Especially if you're new, you will just
lose money.
You get like a lot of new RL people
like, "Oh, can I just do this for
trading and make money?" No,
at least not easily.
All right. So, we got this machine
spare.
This thing's got uh 64090s in it.
So,
I know we can probably run some stuff,
right?
What do I want to do first?
What time is it?
How much time I have to queue up jobs.
It's not insider info in the like
illegal trading sense of it. It's like
companies purchasing large public data
sets that give them there's
anformational advantage. It's not
insider information. There's a
difference.
It's like they'll know stuff like how
many cars are in the parking lots of all
the stores or like how many employees
are currently working in the factory at
like 11:00 p.m. on a Sunday. Stuff like
that.
There are areas you can do stuff with,
but like the naive we're going to RL the
stock markets doesn't make sense. Like
there is stuff you can do and actually
people have done some stuff.
But like it's usually the thing is that
it's new people asking this a lot of the
time. If you do it naively, you will
just lose money.
Why not both? What?
What do I do with this? What do I do
first?
different things I need with these.
Want to mess with observations.
Oh
yeah.
Not expecting to be easy. I do trading
professionally.
Yeah. So,
you definitely need people who know both
of these.
I can't obviously tell you the details
of the thing I'm doing at the moment,
but I can tell you it's like you're
definitely not just throw agents at the
New York Stock,
right?
Like I think the finance thing is
kind of better. It's a better fit if you
already have at least some people inside
that are like doing RL in some
knowledgeable capacity and want uh like
more expertise on that then kind of
stuff with us makes sense.
Like hey can you RL the stock markets
for us is kind of tough
to get to what you're working on. Do you
suggest you start what do you suggest
start on as a basic practice interested
neural net but start? Yeah. So based on
your messages
probably want to go to my articles tab.
I've got my general advice for
programming in ML. This is how to get
the fundamentals. Then this is for
reinforcement learning specific.
This one is the one that's way harder.
Getting like fundamentals of ML and like
actually getting good at programming is
much harder than becoming a productive
researcher once you have that.
Fundamentals are very important.
It's a lot less math than uh most people
would think. It's mostly like can you
actually write decent code without
making a mess? Do you understand
fundamentals of deep?
If you do, the rest of it can fall into
place much more.
At least that's my playbook, right? I
can only give you the way I've
approached things. It's been relatively
successful.
Other people will give you different
advice.
These are my best recommendations.
Uh yeah,
going to link my whole articles tab
because frankly there's a bunch of good
stuff in here for commerce
the articles tab. So may people don't
realize this exists. Like you can just
click the tab and then you have all the
articles.
I have a lot of content here on RL
because I always get these questions,
right? So instead of answering them a
million times, I kind of just like I put
everything very cleanly into these
articles
because it's a much better form of the
advice that I would give you off the
cuff here. Right.
Also star the repo. Star the puffer.
It's free. It helps us out a lot. We're
almost at 3k stars.
Look at the growth on this in the last
couple of weeks. Very happy with it.
really the hardest. Yeah,
I honestly like it's kind of one of the
most important things
programming is designed. It's like
the human brain is basically when you
see programming,
your brain is almost certainly designed
to like trick you into wanting to do
clever things that are completely
useless.
You have to be okay with doing very
simple, stupid things in order to
actually get better and progress.
They're absolutely like senior engineers
that have been doing this stuff for 15
years that are very well paid that
absolut do not care about actually
solving problems and mostly care about
feeling clever. These types of people
are a pain in the ass to work with.
What is the thing that is preventing?
Usually when you have problems like
this, it's that the agent can't all the
information it needs.
I got to go. But um
left my watch on
take a quick look at the data.
These are what observations look like.
See, they're like roughly 01 normalized,
right? You don't have to be like
you don't have to be ludicrous about it.
As long as they're roughly 0 to one
scaled, you should be good.
Okay, so we have lost continue a few
times.
of this is not amazing
got linear velocities.
The fact that they're all relative is
potentially a problem, right?
Frankly, you shouldn't even be able to
observe your velocities, right?
You only can observe your acceleration.
No.
Like you assume that the drone has
reasonable to you assume that the drone
has an accelerometer and a gyroscope,
right?
Oh, shoot. Is that even reasonable to
assume?
Um,
I kind of didn't think about that.
I was thinking like what more
information can I give these things but
actually like
kind of have to give them less don't
Okay.
One point.
does get the direction to the Target.
Okay. I don't fully know. I'm going to
have to run more experiments later. Let
me see if I can go at least check the uh
the Neptune curve.
done anything.
Not amazing.
I guess we'll see later because like
stability can come from the uh learning
rate decay being bad.
It's still going to take some work.
Unfortunately, at the very least, we got
this into a spot where the racing is
good and the individual tasks are good
with or without domain randomization.
Just going to have to like probably fix
sweeps for this is the main thing. Okay,
I gotta run so I can get to my meeting.
So, um, thank you for tuning in folks.
I stream well as much dev as I possibly
can here.
If uh you're interested in my work more
generally, puffer.ai AI for all the
things. Start the GitHub free helps me
out a lot. And uh join Discord. Want to
get involved with all the dev. We've got
a nice community of helpful people on
there. You can follow me on X for more
content including all of the pro
articles.
Thank you and I will be back probably
either